For the second lesson on recursive
functions, we're
going to look at cursing over stream data.
We're gonna call this recursion2.py.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So,
the first thing we're going to do is we're
going to
write a function called explode and it
would like like this.
If we said explode.
Hello.
Our output would be hello with a space
between each letter, kind of
exploding it out and making it take up
more space, just like that.
So we start out, def explode, our
perimeter is word.
The first thing we do is test to see if
the word length is less than or equal to
one.
If it is, then we need to stop.
So we return the word.
Otherwise, we return the character at word
subzero plus a space or concatenated with
a space.
And then our recursive call.
And to recurse over the rest of the word.
In other words, we're going to start with
hello, and then on the first
recursive call, we want the word to be
ELLO if we're doing hello, for example.
So to do that, we'll use one colon to get
a
slice starting at position one through the
rest of the string.
And therefore as we recurse through the
string, we'll eventually get
to where there are no more letters left in
the word.
So let's write some quick code, to test
that.
Print, explode, and we'll just use hello
as the example.
So let's, exit and save.
And we'll, run the program.
And there's hello exploded.
So that's our first example.
Our second example.
I'll put the example up here in the
comments also.
We're gonna write a function called
removeDups, which stands for remove
duplicates.
And so if we give it a string like this,
a-a-b-b-c-c, it will return a-b-c.
So let's write that function next.
It also has word as a parameter.
First thing we do is check to see if the
link to the
word is less than or equal to one, and if
so, we return.
Word, then, the next thing we have to do
is we
have to see if the two adjacent letters
are the same.
So, if word subzero is equal to word
sub-one, then we want to return
straight to a recursive call, and take a
slice starting at the next.
Letter in the word.
In other words, word one colon just like
we did in the example above.
Otherwise, this means that the two
adjacent letters are not the same.
We want to return the letter at word
subzero and then our recursive call to
remove Dupes.
So, let's give that one a shot.
print removeDups aabbbccccdd.
Like so.
So, let's do just for fun.
Let's take this, cut it out.
Right here.
A way we can print the original word and
then the word with duplicates removed.
So lets exit and save.
Lets clear the screen.
So there's our original version and
there's our final version.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
So as you can see recursion can be
performed on both numeric data and string
data.
Having shown you these examples of
recursion let me just warn you that in
most cases it's much faster and more
efficient to write the solutions to these.
Function problems using iterative methods
such as, loops and four loops
and y loops those kinds of techniques
however for some
problems such as factorial the natural
solution is a recursive solution
and because modern computing hardware and
software systems are relatively fast.
The recursive solution will seem as
efficient if
not almost as efficient as a iterative
solution.
But with that, we're going to leave
recursion again until the exercises.
And now we're ready to move to the next
advanced topic in the next lesson.